first light across the western hills of
Earth's only continent Pangaea this
world has been ruled by one group of
giant reptiles for over 50 million years
but these ancient creatures have had
their day all over these lush fern
prairies a grim evolutionary battle has
broken out among the newer types of
reptile for supremacy of this strange
world on these Triassic proving grounds
dinosaurs are still comparatively rare
but they are beginning to show the first
signs of their future success
it is the end of the wet season and the
local river is full but it will not
remain this lush and ahead lies nine
months with no rain one type of reptile
has evolved to thrive in drought
dinosaurs like this Coelophysis can
survive on very little water
she is also light boned fast and she is
beautifully adapted for killing
dinosaurs first appeared around ten
million years before as small predators
but what makes them unique is special
hips and ankles that allow them to stand
perfectly balanced on two legs with
lightning fast reactions they are built
to survive a growing chorus of calls
signals the arrival of a huge herd of
four serious they are making their way
down from the fern scrubland for their
morning drink these impressive one-ton
beasts are not related to dinosaurs they
are a much more ancient type of reptile
once there were many different varieties
of these powerful creatures swaggering
across the landscape but now the /
Sirius are the only ones of their kind
that remain they are an endangered
species despite their fearsome
appearance they are actually gentle
herbivores their tusks are used for
digging up roots but on two angry males
these tusks can make lethal weapons
for the swift Coelophysis the serious
our prey
this young female targets the old and
weak in the slow-moving her one day the
descendants of dinosaurs like
Coelophysis will take over this world
but it is their speed and agility that
gives them the edge in the mid Triassic